---
layout: guide
title: Search API - Statistical Facet
cat: guide
---

p. Statistical facet allows to compute statistical data on a numeric fields. The statistical data include count, total, sum of squares, mean (average), minimum, maximum, variance, and standard deviation. Here is an example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {
        "match_all" : {}
    },
    "facets" : {
        "stat1" : {
            "statistical" : {
                "field" : "num1"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

h1. Script field

p. When using @field@, the numeric value of the field is used to compute the statistical information. Sometimes, several fields values represent the statistics we want to compute, or some sort of mathematical evaluation. The script field allows to define a "script":../../../../modules/scripting to evaluate, with its value used to compute the statistical information. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {
        "match_all" : {}
    },
    "facets" : {
        "stat1" : {
            "statistical" : {
                "script" : "doc['num1'].value + doc['num2'].value"
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

p. Parameters can also be provided to the different scripts (preferable if the script is the same, with different values for a specific parameter, like "factor"):

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {
        "match_all" : {}
    },
    "facets" : {
        "stat1" : {
            "statistical" : {
                "script" : "(doc['num1'].value + doc['num2'].value) * factor",
                "params" : {
                    "factor" : 5
                }
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>

h1. Multi Field

p. The statistical facet can be executed against more than one field, returning the aggregation result across those fields. For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {
        "match_all" : {}
    },
    "facets" : {
        "stat1" : {
            "statistical" : {
                "fields" : ["num1", "num2"]
            }
        }
    }
}    
</pre>


h1. Memory Considerations

p. In order to implement the histogram facet, the relevant field values are loaded into memory from the index. This means that per shard, there should be enough memory to contain them. Since by default, dynamic introduced types are @long@ and @double@, one option to reduce the memory footprint is to explicitly set the types for the relevant fields to either @short@, @integer@, or @float@ when possible.
