---
layout: guide
title: Clients & Integrations
cat: guide
---

h1. Clients

* "ElasticSearch.pm":http://github.com/clintongormley/ElasticSearch.pm: Perl client.
* "pyes":http://github.com/aparo/pyes: Python client.
* "pyelasticsearch":http://github.com/rhec/pyelasticsearch: Python client.
* "em-elasticsearch":http://github.com/ichverstehe/em-elasticsearch: elasticsearch library for eventmachine.
* "rubberband":http://github.com/grantr/rubberband: Ruby client.
*  "ruby_elasticsearch":http://github.com/adrpac/elasticsearch: Ruby client.
*  "slingshot":https://github.com/karmi/slingshot/: Ruby API & DSL.
* "erlastic_search":http://github.com/tsloughter/erlastic_search: Erlang client.
* "Elastica":http://github.com/ruflin/Elastica: PHP client.
* "elasitcsearch":http://github.com/nervetattoo/elasticsearch PHP client.
* "NEST":https://github.com/Mpdreamz/NEST: .NET client.
* "ElasticSearch.NET":https://github.com/medcl/ElasticSearch.Net: .NET client.

h2. Integrations

* "Grails":http://grails.org/plugin/elasticsearch: ElasticSearch Grails plugin.
* "escargot":https://github.com/angelf/escargot: ElasticSearch connector for Rails (WIP).
* "catalyst":http://www.catalystframework.org/calendar/2010/2: ElasticSearch and Catalyst integration.
* "django-elasticsearch":http://github.com/aparo/django-elasticsearch: Django ElasticSearch Backend.
* "elasticflume":http://github.com/tallpsmith/elasticflume: "Flume":http://github.com/cloudera/flume sink implementation.
* "Terrastore Search":http://code.google.com/p/terrastore/wiki/Search_Integration: "Terrastore":http://code.google.com/p/terrastore/ integration module with elasticsearch.
* "Wonderdog":https://github.com/infochimps/wonderdog: Hadoop bulk loader into elasticsearch.

h2. Front Ends

* "elasticsearch-head":https://github.com/mobz/elasticsearch-head: A web front end for an elastic search cluster.

h2. Github

p. Github is a place where a lot of development is done around *elasticsearch*, here is a simple search for "repos":https://github.com/search?q=elasticsearch&type=Repositories.