---
layout: guide
title: Search API - Highlighting
cat: guide
---

p. Allow to highlight search results on one or more fields. The implementation uses the lucene fast-vector-highlighter. The search request body:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {...},
    "highlight" : {
        "fields" : {
            "_all" : {}
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. In the above case, the @_all@ field will be highlighted for each search hit (there will be another element in each search hit, called @highlight@, which includes the highlighted fields and the highlighted fragments).

p. The highlighting process requires the original text to be highlighted against, as well as @term_vector@ information set to @with_positions_offsets@.

p. The @term_vector@ can be set on each field to be highlighted. The actual source to be highlighted can be extracted from a field that is set to be stored (@store@ set to @yes@), or, if not set, it will automatically be extracted from the @_source@ stored within the index (allowing to keep the index size smaller).

p. Here is an example of setting the @_all@ field to allow for highlighting on it (this will cause the index to be bigger):

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "type_name" : {
        "_all" : {"store" : "yes", "term_vector" : "with_positions_offsets"}
    }
}
</pre>


h1. Highlighting Tags

p. By default, the highlighting will wrap highlighted text in @<em>@ and @</em>@. This can be controlled by setting @pre_tags@ and @post_tags@, for example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {...},
    "highlight" : {
        "pre_tags" : ["<tag1>", "<tag2>"],
        "post_tags" : ["</tag1>", "</tag2>"],
        "fields" : {
            "_all" : {}
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. There can be a single tag or more, and the "importance" is ordered. There are also built in "tag" schemas, with currently a single schema called @styled@ with @pre_tags@ of:

<pre class="prettyprint">
<em class="hlt1">, <em class="hlt2">, <em class="hlt3">,
<em class="hlt4">, <em class="hlt5">, <em class="hlt6">,
<em class="hlt7">, <em class="hlt8">, <em class="hlt9">,
<em class="hlt10">
</pre>

p. And post tag of @</em>@. If you think of more nice to have built in tag schemas, just send an email to the mailing list or open an issue. Here is an example of switching tag schemas:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {...},
    "highlight" : {
        "tags_schema" : "styled",
        "fields" : {
            "_all" : {}
        }
    }
}
</pre>

h1. Highlighted Fragments

p. Each field highlighted can control the size of the highlighted fragment in characters (defaults to @100@), and the maximum number of fragments to return (defaults to @5@). For example:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {...},
    "highlight" : {
        "fields" : {
            "_all" : {"fragment_size" : 150, "number_of_fragments" : 3}
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. On top of this it is possible to specify that highlighted fragments are order by score:

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {...},
    "highlight" : {
        "order" : "score",
        "fields" : {
            "_all" : {"fragment_size" : 150, "number_of_fragments" : 3}
        }
    }
}
</pre>

p. Note the score of text fragment in this case is calculated by Lucene highlighting framework. For implementation details you can check @ScoreOrderFragmentsBuilder.java@ class.

p. If the @number_of_fragments@ value is set to 0 then no fragments are produced, instead the whole content of the field is returned, and of course it is highlighted. This can be very handy if short texts (like document title or address) need to be highlighted but no fragmentation is required. Note that @fragment_size@ is ignored in this case.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {...},
    "highlight" : {
        "fields" : {
            "_all" : {},
            "bio.title" : {"number_of_fragments" : 0}
        }
    }
}
</pre>

h1. Global Settings

p. Highlighting settings can be set on a global level and then overridden at the field level.

<pre class="prettyprint lang-js">
{
    "query" : {...},
    "highlight" : {
        "number_of_fragments" : 3,
        "fragment_size" : 150,
        "tag_schema" : "styled",
        "fields" : {
            "_all" : { "pre_tags" : ["<em>"], "post_tags" : ["</em>"] },
            "bio.title" : { "number_of_fragments" : 0 },
            "bio.author" : { "number_of_fragments" : 0 },
            "bio.content" : { "number_of_fragments" : 5, "order" : "score" }
        }
    }
}
</pre>
